---
title: "Ripping alt-j webgame part 1"
---

# Intro
So Alt-J's new album has an aesthetic that's based on LSD: Dream Emulator, and they made a webGL game for it -- you can walk around the violence district in it! Turns out Osamu Sato is credited for the album art and he helped make the webGL game. So I'm gonna have a look at it.

# Source code
So the source code is written in Javascript, which I don't know a lot of but I've done my best in looking at it.
It's pretty obfuscated but there's a bunch of stuff left in there. I played around in the Chrome developer tools and managed to change a few things around, like turning off fog, and I managed to glitch the map once by changing the width.
It seems like the game is loading from the original files, or some variation of them, as I found a reference to `TMD` files, which are PSX model files.
After looking at the source some more I found some paths to data, such as sounds and images, and most importantly data.

# Data files
The files in the data directory are stored in `.mpz` format. After looking around the web and the rest of the code for a while I figured out they were MessagePack files but compressed with zlib (the first 2 bytes in every file were `78 DA`, which is the start of a zlib header).
So I wrote a little python script to decompress them, which resulted in getting text visible in the hex editor, such as "Violence District" (!!). I then converted this now uncompressed MessagePack file to json using msgpack-tools, and it worked! Kind of. There's still some parts of the data it doesn't know how to parse.
Here's a sample:
```json
{
    "id": 5,
    "name": "Violence District",
    "map": {
        "w": 110,
        "h": 120,
        "tiles": <ext of type 22 size 52800>
    },
    "tiles": [
        null,
        {
            "model": 39,
            "height": 0,
            "rotate": 0,
            "area": 1,
            "next": 0
        },
        {
            "model": 39,
            "height": 0,
            "rotate": 0,
            "area": 1,
            "next": 0
        },
...
```
You can see the part where it says `<ext of type 22 size 52800>` is the part it doesn't know how to convert.

Okay so it turns out that with MessagePack you can have user-defined extensions which consist of an integer identifier and a byte array. So I guess this application has defined a bunch of custom extensions. They seem to be from 18 to 23?
I found an array in the source code that contains all the values, but it also has a bunch more. It's on line `4514`.

I managed to get the converter to spit out a base64 string of each byte array, but the resultant file is not pretty... At least it's in the file though.